# Cardiotocography_prediction
Machine Learning Based Approach for Automatic Detection of Fetal Health Status from Cardiotocography Data
Fetal heart rate pattern is a reliable indicator of fetus health as it is directly manipulated by the fetal neurologic system. Cardiotocography is a widely used non-invasive fetal heart monitoring technique. Doctors can interpret whether a fetus is healthy or not examining the cardiotocography signals. Being able to identify the health status of a fetus has great medical importance during the labor period. It helps the doctors decide whether surgical intervention is needed or not. Automatically detecting the health status of a fetus from cardiotocography data can help the doctor in making the right decisions in short amount of time. The ability to automatically predict fetal health status could reduce the number of stillbirths and neonatal deaths. It will also facilitate the use of telemedicine and tele monitoring for maternal care. This study uses three machine learning algorithms (logistic regression, random forest and support vector machine) to build predictive models which can predict fetus health from cardiotocography data. Data preprocessing techniques such as outlier removal, feature selection was done to develop high accuracy models. Hyper parameter tuning was done on each model to optimize their performance. At the end, a comparative analysis between the built models was performed. From this comparative analysis the best model in terms of detecting all the pathologic and suspected state and precisely detecting the normal state was selected with an accuracy of 95.3%. The findings demonstrate improvement on the current literature and possess potential to be incorporated in clinical setup. 
